README.md, before:

# mqtt_bridge

[![CircleCI](https://circleci.com/gh/groove-x/mqtt_bridge.svg?style=svg)](https://circleci.com/gh/groove-x/mqtt_bridge)

mqtt_bridge provides a functionality to bridge between ROS and MQTT in bidirectional.


## Principle

`mqtt_bridge` uses ROS message as its protocol. Messages from ROS are serialized by json (or messagepack) for MQTT, and messages from MQTT are deserialized for ROS topic. So MQTT messages should be ROS message compatible. (We use `rosbridge_library.internal.message_conversion` for message conversion.)

This limitation can be overcome by defining custom bridge class, though.

## Decawave TAGS

### Prerequisites
All tags have to be running the same firmware. This package has been successfully tested with the factory firmware (FW) image. In order to receive the distance between anchors and tags, it is necessary to flash the dwm-simple project on all tags. The compiling procedure is described on Decawave's DWM1001 firmware user guide. From my own experience I recommend to disable automatic firmware update. Both, the dwm-simple project and the factory firmware are available on the firmware_tag folder.

The network tested included 8 anchors, 2 tags and one Gateway. The configuration procedure of such network is also described on the Decawave's Quick Gateway development guide. All settings and default user's name and password have been set in config/Decawave_params.yaml. To properly set the name of the topics sending the position of the tag, you need to use a MQTT client and make sure they match the ones listed on config/Decawave_params.yaml.

Once this has been set, edit launch/deca_decoding.launch to match the number of tags in your network. Namespaces correspond to the name of the tag. Finally, roslaunch mqtt_bridge decawave.launch will get you acces to the network through ROS.

Plenty of messages have been defined to match the mqtt messages sent by the tags, check msg folder.

## Demo

### Prerequisites

```
$ sudo apt install python3-pip
$ sudo apt install ros-noetic-rosbridge-library
$ sudo apt install mosquitto mosquitto-clients
```

### Install python modules

```bash
$ pip3 install -r requirements.txt
```

### launch node

``` bash
$ roslaunch mqtt_bridge demo.launch
```

Publish to `/ping`,

```
$ rostopic pub /ping std_msgs/Bool "data: true"
```

and see response to `/pong`.

```
$ rostopic echo /pong
data: True
---
```

Publish "hello" to `/echo`,

```
$ rostopic pub /echo std_msgs/String "data: 'hello'"
```

and see response to `/back`.

```
$ rostopic echo /back
data: hello
---
```

You can also see MQTT messages using `mosquitto_sub`

```
$ mosquitto_sub -t '#'
```

## Usage

parameter file (config.yaml):

``` yaml
mqtt:
  client:
    protocol: 4      # MQTTv311
  connection:
    host: localhost
    port: 1883
    keepalive: 60
bridge:
  # ping pong
  - factory: mqtt_bridge.bridge:RosToMqttBridge
    msg_type: std_msgs.msg:Bool
    topic_from: /ping
    topic_to: ping
  - factory: mqtt_bridge.bridge:MqttToRosBridge
    msg_type: std_msgs.msg:Bool
    topic_from: ping
    topic_to: /pong
```

you can use any msg types like `sensor_msgs.msg:Imu`.

launch file:

``` xml
<launch>
  <node name="mqtt_bridge" pkg="mqtt_bridge" type="mqtt_bridge_node.py" output="screen">
    <rosparam file="/path/to/config.yaml" command="load" />
  </node>
</launch>
```

## Configuration

### mqtt

Parameters under `mqtt` section are used for creating paho's `mqtt.Client` and its configuration.

#### subsections

* `client`: used for `mqtt.Client` constructor
* `tls`: used for tls configuration
* `account`: used for username and password configuration
* `message`: used for MQTT message configuration
* `userdata`: used for MQTT userdata configuration
* `will`: used for MQTT's will configuration

See `mqtt_bridge.mqtt_client` for detail.

### mqtt private path

If `mqtt/private_path` parameter is set, leading `~/` in MQTT topic path will be replaced by this value. For example, if `mqtt/pivate_path` is set as "device/001", MQTT path "~/value" will be converted to "device/001/value".

### serializer and deserializer

`mqtt_bridge` uses `msgpack` as a serializer by default. But you can also configure other serializers. For example, if you want to use json for serialization, add following configuration.

``` yaml
serializer: json:dumps
deserializer: json:loads
```

### bridges

You can list ROS <--> MQTT tranfer specifications in following format.

``` yaml
bridge:
  # ping pong
  - factory: mqtt_bridge.bridge:RosToMqttBridge
    msg_type: std_msgs.msg:Bool
    topic_from: /ping
    topic_to: ping
  - factory: mqtt_bridge.bridge:MqttToRosBridge
    msg_type: std_msgs.msg:Bool
    topic_from: ping
    topic_to: /pong
```

* `factory`: bridge class for transfering message from ROS to MQTT, and vise versa.
* `msg_type`: ROS Message type transfering through the bridge.
* `topic_from`: topic incoming from (ROS or MQTT)
* `topic_to`: topic outgoing to (ROS or MQTT)

Also, you can create custom bridge class by inheriting `mqtt_brige.bridge.Bridge`.


## License

This software is released under the MIT License, see LICENSE.txt.

Commit message:

The pose of the tag with repect to the map frame is now published.

README.md, after:

# mqtt_bridge + decawave tags

[![CircleCI](https://circleci.com/gh/groove-x/mqtt_bridge.svg?style=svg)](https://circleci.com/gh/groove-x/mqtt_bridge)

mqtt_bridge provides a functionality to bridge between ROS and MQTT in bidirectional.


## Principle

`mqtt_bridge` uses ROS message as its protocol. Messages from ROS are serialized by json (or messagepack) for MQTT, and messages from MQTT are deserialized for ROS topic. So MQTT messages should be ROS message compatible. (We use `rosbridge_library.internal.message_conversion` for message conversion.)

This limitation can be overcome by defining custom bridge class, though.

## Decawave TAGS

### Prerequisites
Prerequisites
All tags have to be running the same firmware. This package has been successfully tested with the factory firmware (FW) image. In order to receive the distance between anchors and tags, it is necessary to flash the dwm-simple project on all tags. The compiling procedure is described on Decawave's DWM1001 firmware user guide. From my own experience I recommend to disable automatic firmware update. Both, the dwm-simple project and the factory firmware are available on the firmware_tag folder.

The network tested included 8 anchors, 2 tags and one Gateway. The configuration procedure of such network is also described on the Decawave's Quick Gateway development guide. All settings and default user's name and password have been set in config/Decawave_params.yaml. To properly set the name of the topics sending the position of the tag, you need to use a MQTT client and make sure they match the ones listed on config/Decawave_params.yaml.

Once this has been set, edit launch/deca_decoding.launch to match the number of tags in your network. Namespaces correspond to the name of the tag. Finally, roslaunch mqtt_bridge decawave.launch will get you acces to the network through ROS.

Plenty of messages have been defined to match the mqtt messages sent by the tags, check msg folder.

Publications:
- distances the id in hexadecimal and distance to the tag. 
- distances_b64 the string encoded in base 64 sent throught MQTT containing the ids and distances of the anchors used for locating the tag.
- position the position of the tag with respect to anchor initiator, it is the result of the trilateration process sent by the tag, including quality and superFrameNumber.
- pose  the pose of the tag with respect to the map frame, in order to set the tag frame, check decawave.launch 

## Demo

### Prerequisites

```
$ sudo apt install python3-pip
$ sudo apt install ros-noetic-rosbridge-library
$ sudo apt install mosquitto mosquitto-clients
```

### Install python modules

```bash
$ pip3 install -r requirements.txt
```

### launch node

``` bash
$ roslaunch mqtt_bridge demo.launch
```

Publish to `/ping`,

```
$ rostopic pub /ping std_msgs/Bool "data: true"
```

and see response to `/pong`.

```
$ rostopic echo /pong
data: True
---
```

Publish "hello" to `/echo`,

```
$ rostopic pub /echo std_msgs/String "data: 'hello'"
```

and see response to `/back`.

```
$ rostopic echo /back
data: hello
---
```

You can also see MQTT messages using `mosquitto_sub`

```
$ mosquitto_sub -t '#'
```

## Usage

parameter file (config.yaml):

``` yaml
mqtt:
  client:
    protocol: 4      # MQTTv311
  connection:
    host: localhost
    port: 1883
    keepalive: 60
bridge:
  # ping pong
  - factory: mqtt_bridge.bridge:RosToMqttBridge
    msg_type: std_msgs.msg:Bool
    topic_from: /ping
    topic_to: ping
  - factory: mqtt_bridge.bridge:MqttToRosBridge
    msg_type: std_msgs.msg:Bool
    topic_from: ping
    topic_to: /pong
```

you can use any msg types like `sensor_msgs.msg:Imu`.

launch file:

``` xml
<launch>
  <node name="mqtt_bridge" pkg="mqtt_bridge" type="mqtt_bridge_node.py" output="screen">
    <rosparam file="/path/to/config.yaml" command="load" />
  </node>
</launch>
```

## Configuration

### mqtt

Parameters under `mqtt` section are used for creating paho's `mqtt.Client` and its configuration.

#### subsections

* `client`: used for `mqtt.Client` constructor
* `tls`: used for tls configuration
* `account`: used for username and password configuration
* `message`: used for MQTT message configuration
* `userdata`: used for MQTT userdata configuration
* `will`: used for MQTT's will configuration

See `mqtt_bridge.mqtt_client` for detail.

### mqtt private path

If `mqtt/private_path` parameter is set, leading `~/` in MQTT topic path will be replaced by this value. For example, if `mqtt/pivate_path` is set as "device/001", MQTT path "~/value" will be converted to "device/001/value".

### serializer and deserializer

`mqtt_bridge` uses `msgpack` as a serializer by default. But you can also configure other serializers. For example, if you want to use json for serialization, add following configuration.

``` yaml
serializer: json:dumps
deserializer: json:loads
```

### bridges

You can list ROS <--> MQTT tranfer specifications in following format.

``` yaml
bridge:
  # ping pong
  - factory: mqtt_bridge.bridge:RosToMqttBridge
    msg_type: std_msgs.msg:Bool
    topic_from: /ping
    topic_to: ping
  - factory: mqtt_bridge.bridge:MqttToRosBridge
    msg_type: std_msgs.msg:Bool
    topic_from: ping
    topic_to: /pong
```

* `factory`: bridge class for transfering message from ROS to MQTT, and vise versa.
* `msg_type`: ROS Message type transfering through the bridge.
* `topic_from`: topic incoming from (ROS or MQTT)
* `topic_to`: topic outgoing to (ROS or MQTT)

Also, you can create custom bridge class by inheriting `mqtt_brige.bridge.Bridge`.


## License

This software is released under the MIT License, see LICENSE.txt.
